So let's move on to our last
section designed for debug ability.
This is a little bit of me restating some
of the things about how to fix bugs,
And some of my opinions
on how to do things.
So feel free to argue with me and
let's have a debate.
This is one of my favorite quotes.
The web is the most hostile software
engineering environment imaginable
By, I guess, fellow front end
masters teacher, that's weird.
He's one of your first teachers, right?
Anyway, I've seen multiple
videos of him saying this, so
I can attribute it to them.
The web is the most hostile software
engineering environment imaginable.
We're writing code in this
language that was, frankly and
admittedly cobbled together and
we keep bolting new things on to it.
And we don't just have a single
runtime of JavaScript,
we have dozens of runtimes of JavaScript.
Triton and IE, was it ice monkey,
ice weasel, ice something in Mozilla and
blink inside of Chrome.
The actual pieces of technology
inside of the browsers that's
executing the JavaScript is
different in a different browser and
has different quirks and different
performance and reliability aspects.
And so we're building an application
once in a not always ideal language, and
shipping it to run in multiple
different versions of the runtime
that we have no control
over which users do it.
And they're all doing
it across networks that
tend to meddle in how things are shipped.
And it's obviously incredibly hostile
compared to writing towards the developer.
Compared to writing in other languages,
other languages that might have a more
consistent way of thinking and
have predictable ways of deploying.
And so, this is a core thing
that is really frustrating
to debugging a lot of
JavaScript applications.
And so, I think it's important for
all applications but especially JavaScript
to think about what are some things we
can do as we're building our applications
to make them easier to understand
when something is going wrong and
easier to diagnose them
because things will go wrong.
They'll go wrong in everybody's
application, I've never used,
I've never worked with a piece of software
that I would describe as bug free.
It's just whether or
not you found them yet.
So, I'm gonna kind of break this
into the same structure that I
did at the beginning.
So some ideas on how to better identify,
how to better isolate,
how to better resolve, and
then how to better prevent errors
through the design of your application.
I started the day with this,
which I actually think about this concept
a lot is that the earlier you
find the bug, the cheaper,
and easier, and better it is for
everybody involved.
So how do you find bugs sooner.
How do you make sure that
the developer can find the bug first.
And that kinda comes with just your own,
as you grow up
as a developer cuz you become more aware
that you're writing bugs all the time.
And you only catch some of them.
How reliable do you test,
do you have monitoring and
hopefully you never have
to deal with user reports.
Monitoring is really the only
tool based thing there.
Development and testing is about
the maturity of you, and your team, and
your software development process.
But the only tool you can really buy
to stick in here is a monitoring, and
some of these that you will build,
and some of these you will buy.
And it depends on what your application
is and what your stack does.
If you're looking to buy something, I run
something that you might be interested in
called Track:js, which can help you
capture the errors on the front end.
But you'll probably want to pair that
up with some monitoring that looks
at your API performance, and
your back ends, and who's doing things.
In a really powerful set of tools that has
been developed in the last couple of years
is from Elastic,
their Elastic Search tool,
the cabana, reporting engine, and tons and
tons of stuff on that where you can build
basically an infinitely complex amount
of logging tools into their stack and
it's relatively easy to report off of it.
Track:js itself is actually
built on top of elastic search.
Getting these tools in place lets
you fill that really important gap,
that gap between your own maturity,
and having an angry customer.
Having somebody quit,
having somebody ask for
a refund, having somebody
complain about Twitter about you.
Complain on Twitter about you.
Monitoring is that last boundary that says
even if your processes broke down and
you don't,
you let a bug slip into production,
that you can be the one
to know about it first.
Once you have something that monitors, you
can do all kinds of interesting things.
You can instrument for
your own priorities.
Here's an example.
Maybe you want to instrument for
how long your page takes to load.
Here's how you could do it.
Here's a little snippet of code that you
would just drop into your page somewhere
that says hey,
start a timer for 10 seconds,
10 seconds being an arbitrary limit of
when you think something bad has happened.
After 10 seconds, check some
condition if the page is loaded.
Is your widget visible?
Can the user see their first tweet?
Can the user do something?
Whatever your app is an indication that
they have load it, and if they haven't,
track an error, record something that
says, here's how many times how many
users, an unacceptable level
of performance has happened.
You can do these with all kinds
of different things that can help
you understand the critical factors that
your users taking your applications.